22.10.0 Release notes (#2021)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/release-notes/22-10-0/feature-state.md

---
linkTitle: Feature grid
title: 22.10.0 Feature Grid snapshot
description: Snapshot of the Open 3D Engine (O3DE) feature status grid for the 22.10.0 release.
toc: true
---

> This feature grid shows the state of each feature system within **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** for the 22.10.0 release. For an up-to-date feature grid and full notes, see the [o3de/community feature grid](https://o3de.github.io/community/features/form.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature grid shows the state of each feature system within **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** for the 22.10.0 release. For an up-to-date feature grid and full notes, refer to the [o3de/community feature grid](https://o3de.github.io/community/features/form.html).
```

> This feature grid shows the state of each feature system within **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** for the 22.10.0 release. For an up-to-date feature grid and full notes, see the [o3de/community feature grid](https://o3de.github.io/community/features/form.html).

Reviewer: Perhaps the link should point to https://o3de.github.io/community/features/ where notes regarding the feature grid are found.  An up-to-date feature grid can't be found at either URL, consider removing that part of the line.

Author: Updated the first two paragraphs, so it includes a link to the actual feature state form, as well as the guidelines. 

> This feature grid shows the state of each feature system within **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** for the 22.10.0 release. For an up-to-date feature grid and full notes, refer to the [Feature State Form](https://o3de.github.io/community/features/form.html).
>
> Features are reported by each individual O3DE Special Interest Group (SIG), as outlined in the [O3DE SIG Features Editing tool](https://o3de.github.io/community/features/) guide. For more information about each SIG and their responsibilities, refer to the [o3de/community repository](https://github.com/o3de/community/) on GitHub.

> Features are reported via each individual O3DE Special Interest Group (SIG). For more information about each SIG and their responsibilities, see the [o3de/community repository](https://github.com/o3de/community/) on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features are reported by each individual O3DE Special Interest Group (SIG). For more information about each SIG and their responsibilities, refer to the [o3de/community repository](https://github.com/o3de/community/) on GitHub.
```

 
## SIG-Build 

### Build Systems 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Github Pipelines | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | All  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/.github) | [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-code/git-workflow/) | |
| Jenkins Pipelines | 🟡 Active | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🔵 In Progress | All  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/scripts/build/Jenkins) | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/sig-build/blob/main/AutomatedReview/JenkinsPipelineGuide.md) | |

> | Installer Builds | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Windows) [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Linux) | || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Installer Builds | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux  | [Windows Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Windows)&nbsp;[Linux Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Linux) | || |
```
Added whitespace between the links and gave them unique names.

> | Installer Builds | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Windows) [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Linux) | || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Installer Builds | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux  | [Windows Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Windows)&nbsp;[Linux Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/cmake/Platform/Linux) | || |
```
Added whitespace between the links and gave them unique names.

| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Jenkins | 🟡 Active | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🔵 In Progress | 🔵 In Progress | All  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/scripts/build/Jenkins) | [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-code/git-workflow/) | |
| Github | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | All  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/.github) | || |
| LFS | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | All  | || || |
| License Scanning | 🟡 Active | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🔵 In Progress | 🔵 In Progress | All  | [Link](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/scripts/license_scanner) | || |
## SIG-Content 

### Frameworks 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| AzToolsFramework | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | ⭕ Not Required | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | All | || || |
| Lua | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | ⭕ Not Required | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | All | || [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/scripting/lua/) | |

> | Prefabs | || || || || || || || || |
> | Qt for Python | || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Suggest removing features that don't include any state information.

### Editor 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Asset Browser | 🟡 Active | 🔵 In-Design | ⭕ Not Required | 🟢 Stable | 🔵 In Progress | Windows Linux MacOS  | || || |

> | Framework | || || || || || || || || |
> | Localization | || || || || || || || || |
> | Undo / Redo | || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### AWS Cloud Services 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTPS Support | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || || |
| Restful API Support | 🟡 Active | || || || || || || || |
| AWS C++ SDK Support | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || || |
| Client Side Ident & Auth | 🟡 Active | || || || || || || || |
| Runtime Metrics | 🟡 Active | || || || || || || || |
| Amazon GameLift Support | 🟡 Active | || || || || || || || |

### Microsoft Azure Cloud Services 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Core services | ❌ Unscheduled | || || || || || || || |

## SIG-Platform 

### Platform Abstraction Layer 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| PAL CMake | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| PAL Tools/Editor/AP | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |

> | || || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Platform Configure (Engine Centric) 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Windows | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Mac | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Android | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Linux | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Jasper | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Paris | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Salem | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Provo | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |

> | || || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Platform Build (Engine Centric) 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Windows | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Mac | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Android | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Linux | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Jasper | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Paris | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Salem | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Provo | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |

> | || || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Mac | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Android | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Linux | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Jasper | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Paris | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Salem | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Provo | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |

### O3DE Object Externalization 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Project | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Gem | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Template | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Restricted | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |
| Repo | 🟡 Active | 🔵 In-Design | || || || || || || |
| || || || || || || || || || |

### Language/Localization 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Editor | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | || || || || || || |
| Runtime | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || || |

> | || || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Tag | 🔵 Backlogged | 🟠 Minimal | ❌ None | 🟢 Stable | 🔴 Needs Testing | Windows Linux MacOS  | || || |
| Tooltip | 🟡 Active | 🟢 Complete | ❌ None | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux MacOS  | || || |
| Toggle switch | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟠 Partial | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux MacOS  | || [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/uidev-toggle-switch-component/) | |
| Tree view | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟠 Partial | 🟢 Stable | 🔴 Needs Testing | Windows Linux MacOS  | || [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/uidev-tree-view-component/) | |
| Array | 🔵 Backlogged | 🟠 Minimal | ❌ None | 🟢 Stable | 🔴 Needs Testing | Windows Linux MacOS  | || <br> |
| Table view | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | 🟡 Minimal | 🟢 Stable | 🔴 Needs Testing | Windows Linux MacOS  | || [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/component-library/uidev-table-view-component/) |
| Window | 🟢 Complete | 🟢 Complete | ❌ None | 🟢 Stable | 🟢 Optimized | Windows Linux MacOS  | ||  | |
| Wizard Bar | 🔵 Backlogged | ⭕ Deprecated | ❌ None | ⭕ Deprecated | ❌ Unsupported | || || || |

> | || || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### UX Patterns 

| Module | Feature | Functional | Content | Code/API | Performance | Platform | Github Link | Doc Link |
| :-- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Component Card | 🟡 Active | 🟡 Partial | || || || || || [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/ux-patterns/component-card/overview/) |
| Error & Warnings handling | 🟠 Planned | 🟠 Minimal | || || || || || [Link](https://www.o3de.org/docs/tools-ui/ux-patterns/error/overview/) |
| Hotkey management | 🔵 Backlogged | 🟠 Minimal | || || || || || || |
| UI/UX Responsiveness standards | 🔵 Backlogged | ❌ None | || || || || || ||
| Viewport interaction | 🔵 Backlogged | 🔵 In-Design | || || || || || ||

> | Searching & Filtering | || || || || || || || ||
> | Drag & Drop | || || || || || || || ||
> | Messaging | || || || || || || || ||
> | Dialogs | || || || || || || || ||
> | Mouse Actions | || || || || || || || ||
> | Hot Keys | || || || || || || || ||
> | File Handling | || || || || || || || ||
> | Asset Handling | || || || || || || || ||
> | Data Entry | || || || || || || || ||
> | Focus State | || || || || || || || ||
> | FTUE | || || || || || || || ||
> | Main Menus | || || || || || || || ||
> | Success Messaging | || || || || || || || ||
> | Modes | || || || || || || || ||
> | Pickers | || || || || || || || ||
> | Progress Bars | || || || || || || || ||
> | Settings | || || || || || || || ||
> | Window Behavior | || || || || || || || ||
> | Thumbnails | || || || || || || || ||
> | FAQs | || || || || || || || ||
> | Examples | || || || || || || || || |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
